{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww22280\viewh19580\viewkind1
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 CTC courses - spring 2016\
\
Ambient Interfaces: Activated Objects \
\
Introduction to Computation \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\fs26 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Introduction to Computation 
\f2\i0 focuses on computational techniques, methods, and ideas in the context of art and design. Studio projects first center on the design of algorithms then shift to involve computer programming and scripting. Critical attention is given to code as a body of crafted text with significant aesthetic, philosophical, and social dimensions, as well as the tension, conflict, and potential possible when computation generates, informs, or interacts with drawings, materials, forms, and spaces. Historical and contemporary works of computational art and design will be presented and assigned for analysis. This course is open to students of all majors and is designed for those with little or no experience in programming. In order to conduct work in this course, students will need a laptop computer. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
Art, Life and the Internet. \
\
Following his claim that \'93everyone is an artist,\'94 Joseph Beuys introduced the idea of a \'93social sculpture\'94 to imagine a broader definition of art and creativity; a definition whose neo-avant-gardist objective was to reunite art and life. The \'93social sculpture,\'94 a social organism characterized by openness, spirituality, and fantasy, was aimed at shaping the entire society and was meant to be accomplished cooperatively, spontaneously, and with the help of various disciplines. Today, the question might be: how can we help to turn the Internet into a \'93social sculpture?\'94\
\
Operating on the assumption that everyday life and the Internet have become indissociable, this studio course investigates the transformative impact of the Internet on art and life. The course will trace a lineage from the rise of NetArt to contemporary movements such as New Aesthetic and Post-Internet Art, and explore how the roots of these movements relate to Dada, Fluxus, and Internet culture in general. Simultaneously, we will revisit art historical discourses on the relationship of art and life to gain critical understanding of how artists have engaged the blurring of art/life, and more generally to examine the role of the Internet in everyday life and our society. \
\
This studio aims to overcome preconceived notions of a separation of theory and practice. Readings and discussions will help to form a body of research that will in turn shape the creative student work. At the end of the term, both come together in an exhibition that unites this research and the individual work. \
}